If I had known what was going to happen that day,
I probably would have stayed in bed.
My name is Ethan.
I'm 14 years old.
And like any teenager, the first day of school
can be a little scary.
In junior high,
there's always someone who wants to cause trouble.
So, there I was.
The first day in my new class,
all I wanted to do was make a good first impression
and stay out of trouble.
But it came looking for me.
My life in junior high was now over.
I started to imagine what the rest of the year might be like.
It wasn't a pretty picture.
Things got better when I talked to dad.
I told him everything that happened that day.
He listened to me,
told me we would face it together
to make it the subject of our next family worship.
Dad said,
we're going to talk about a real challenge David faced
and what helped him.
David had enemies that were determined to hurt him.
Instead of taking matters into his own hands,
he trusted in Jehovah.
He wasn't weak.
In fact, many celebrated his victories.
And this made King Saul very jealous.
His friends wanted him to fight Saul.
But instead, he relied on Jehovah.
Saul's son Jonathan was a true friend.
He warned David when he was in danger.
I learned a lot from that Bible account.
Don't take matters in my own hands.
Avoid the bully when possible.
Be a real friend to those in trouble.
Talk to someone that can help.
Like parents, a teacher, or a responsible adult.
And most importantly, pray to Jehovah and rely on him.
That weekend, we went out in service as a family.
I wouldn't believe who came to the door.
It was the bully.
I quickly said a prayer.
I started with my presentation.
I even showed him a video.
You know, my parents used the Bible to give me the confidence
I needed to deal with a bully.